Add production checklist for ScalarDB Cluster (#207)
scalar-labs/scalar-kubernetes: docs/ProductionChecklistForScalarDBCluster.md

### Network

You should create the Kubernetes cluster on a private network since ScalarDB Cluster does not provide any services to users directly via internet access. We recommend accessing ScalarDB Cluster via a private network from your applications.

### Monitoring and logging

You should monitor the deployed components and collect their logs. For details, see [Monitoring Scalar products on a Kubernetes cluster](./K8sMonitorGuide.md) and [Collecting logs from Scalar products on a Kubernetes cluster](./K8sLogCollectionGuide.md).

### Backup and restore

You should enable the automatic backup feature and PITR feature in the backend database. For details, see [Set up a database for ScalarDB/ScalarDL deployment](./SetupDatabase.md).

## Production checklist: Client applications that access ScalarDB Cluster

The following is a checklist of recommendations when setting up a client application that accesses ScalarDB Cluster in a production environment.

> ### Client mode

Reviewer: Apologies for overlooking this in the previous review. The client mode and configurations are specifically for the ScalarDB Java Client we provide. If users interact with the gRPC API and write their own client code, these settings won't apply. We should probably highlight this.

Author: Ah, I see. That's right. We should add a note about gRPC (not Java library) pattern. I will fix it. Thank you!

Author: @brfrn169 
I updated the description of client mode in 65819854f1692b7b04421c12c0e3984b662736ab.
Please take a look when you have time!

Reviewer: Thank you for the modification!

I think the entire section titled `Production checklist: Client applications that access ScalarDB Cluster` is only for the Java Client library. So probably, we should change the section name to `Production checklist: Client applications that access ScalarDB Cluster (Java client library only)`?

# Production checklist for ScalarDB Cluster

This checklist provides recommendations when deploying ScalarDB Cluster in a production environment.

## Before you begin

In this checklist, we assume that you are deploying ScalarDB Cluster on a managed Kubernetes cluster, which is recommended.

## Production checklist: ScalarDB Cluster

The following is a checklist of recommendations when setting up ScalarDB Cluster in a production environment.

### Number of pods and Kubernetes worker nodes

> To ensure that the Kubernetes cluster has high availability, you should use at least three worker nodes in three availability zones and deploy at least three pods.

Reviewer 2: I feel `three avaliability zones` might be too strict.
I think it highly depends on the applications' requirements, so how about something like this?
```suggestion
To ensure that the Kubernetes cluster has high availability, you should use at least three worker nodes and deploy at least three pods spread across the worker nodes. It depends on the application's requirements, but we also recommend users to place the worker nodes in different availability zones (AZs) to survive an AZ failure.
```

### Worker node specifications

From the perspective of commercial licenses, resources for one pod running ScalarDB Cluster are limited to 2vCPU / 4GB memory. In addition, there are some pods other than ScalarDB Cluster pods on the worker nodes.

> In other words, the following components run on one worker node:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In other words, the following components could run on one worker node:
```
I think running application pods in the same worker node depends on users' preferences/requirements. 
So, stating as above might sound like we assume applications' pods should be deployed in the same worker node.
What do you think?

@josh-wong Also, how does it sound to you?

Reviewer 3: That makes sense to me👍

* ScalarDB Cluster pod (2vCPU / 4GB)
* Envoy proxy if you use `indirect` client mode or use other programming languages than Java (0.2–0.3 vCPU / 256–328 MB)
* Kubernetes components

> * Your application pod

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Your application pod (if you choose to run your application's pods in the same worker node)
```
I'm not sure, but something like the above might be needed to specify what we mean.

Author: I agree with you. We should make it clear. I will adjust the whole of this section based on the discussion.

  ```

* Not recommended for production environments (for testing purposes only)
  ```mermaid
  flowchart LR
    A("<b>App</b> <br> ScalarDB SQL Library (Direct mode)") --> B(Underlying storage/database)
  ```

### Deployment of the client application when using `direct-kubernetes` client mode (Java client library only)

If you use [`direct-kubernetes` client mode](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/developer-guide-for-scalardb-cluster-with-java-api.md#direct-kubernetes-client-mode), you must deploy your client application on the same Kubernetes cluster as the ScalarDB Cluster deployment.

Also, when using `direct-kubernetes` client mode, you must deploy additional Kubernetes resources to make your client application work properly.  For details, see [Deploy your client application on Kubernetes with `direct-kubernetes` mode](https://github.com/scalar-labs/helm-charts/blob/main/docs/how-to-deploy-scalardb-cluster.md#deploy-your-client-application-on-kubernetes-with-direct-kubernetes-mode).

### Transaction handling (Java client library and gRPC API)

> You must make that sure your application always runs [`commit()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransaction.html#commit--) or [`rollback()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransaction.html#rollback--) after you [`begin()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransactionManager.html#begin--) a transaction. If the application does not run `commit()` or `rollback()`, your application might experience unexpected issues or read inconsistent data from the backend database.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must make sure that your application always runs [`commit()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransaction.html#commit--) or [`rollback()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransaction.html#rollback--) after you [`begin()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransactionManager.html#begin--) a transaction. If the application does not run `commit()` or `rollback()`, your application might experience unexpected issues or read inconsistent data from the backend database.
```

# Production checklist for ScalarDB Cluster

This checklist provides recommendations when deploying ScalarDB Cluster in a production environment.

## Before you begin

In this checklist, we assume that you are deploying ScalarDB Cluster on a managed Kubernetes cluster, which is recommended.

## Production checklist: ScalarDB Cluster

The following is a checklist of recommendations when setting up ScalarDB Cluster in a production environment.

### Number of pods and Kubernetes worker nodes

To ensure that the Kubernetes cluster has high availability, you should use at least three worker nodes and deploy at least three pods spread across the worker nodes. You can see the [sample configurations](../conf/scalardb-cluster-custom-values-indirect-mode.yaml) of `podAntiAffinity` for making three pods spread across the worker nodes.

{% capture notice--info %}
**Note**

If you place the worker nodes in different availability zones (AZs), you can survive an AZ failure.
{% endcapture %}

> <div class="notice--info">{{ notice--info | markdownify }}</div>

Author: According to the discussion, we recommend:

* Use at least three nodes (three zones is not necessary).
* Use at least three pods.

And, we add the `you can survive an AZ failure if you use three zones` as a note.

Author: I see. I didn't know that term. Thank you!

### Worker node specifications

From the perspective of commercial licenses, resources for one pod running ScalarDB Cluster are limited to 2vCPU / 4GB memory. In addition, there are some pods other than ScalarDB Cluster pods on the worker nodes.

In other words, the following components could run on one worker node:

* ScalarDB Cluster pod (2vCPU / 4GB)
* Envoy proxy (if you use `indirect` client mode or use other programming languages than Java)
* Your application pods  (if you choose to run your application's pods in the same worker node)
* Monitoring components (if you deploy monitoring components such `kube-prometheus-stack`)

> * Kubernetes components

Author: Now, we assume that some kinds of pods run on one worker node like application, monitoring, and ScalarDB Cluster.

{% capture notice--info %}
**Note**

You do not need to deploy an Envoy pod when using `direct-kubernetes` mode.
{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--info">{{ notice--info | markdownify }}</div>

With this in mind, you should use a worker node that has at least 4vCPU / 8GB memory resources and use at least three worker nodes for availability that we mentioned in the previous section [Number of pods and Kubernetes worker nodes](./ProductionChecklistForScalarDBCluster.md#number-of-pods-and-kubernetes-worker-nodes).

> However, three nodes with at least 4vCPU / 8GB memory resources per node is a minimum environment for production. You should also consider the resources of the Kubernetes cluster (e.g., the number of worker nodes, vCPUs per node, memories per node, pods of ScalarDB Cluster, and pods of your application) depends on your system's workload. In addition, if you plan to scale the pods automatically by using some features like [Horizontal Pod Autoscaling (HPA)](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/run-application/horizontal-pod-autoscale/), you should also consider the maximum number of pods on the worker node to decide on the worker node resources.

Author: I updated the description to `you should consider resources based on your workload`.

The following is a checklist of recommendations when setting up a client application that accesses ScalarDB Cluster in a production environment.

### Client mode (Java client library only)

When you use Java for your application, you can use an official Java client library. In this case, you can choose one of the two client modes [`direct-kubernetes mode`](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/developer-guide-for-scalardb-cluster-with-java-api.md#direct-kubernetes-client-mode) and [`indirect mode`](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/developer-guide-for-scalardb-cluster-with-java-api.md#indirect-client-mode).

From the perspective of performance, we recommend using the `direct-kubernetes` mode. To use the `direct-kubernetes` mode, you must deploy your application pods on the same Kubernetes cluster as ScalarDB Cluster pods. In this case, you do not need to deploy Envoy pods.

If you cannot deploy your Java application pods on the same Kubernetes cluster as ScalarDB Cluster pods for some reason, you must use the `indirect` mode. In this case, you must deploy Envoy pods.

{% capture notice--info %}
**Note**

> The client mode configuration is dedicated to the Java client library. When you use other programming languages than Java (i.e., you use [gRPC API](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/scalardb-cluster-grpc-api-guide.md) and [gRPC SQL API](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/scalardb-cluster-sql-grpc-api-guide.md) without the Java client library) for your application, there is no such configuration. In this case, you must deploy Envoy pods.

Author: When we use the `Java client library`, we can use the ScalarDB feature by using `Java API`.
However, in the internal of `Java client library`, it uses gRPC API.
(In other words, `Java API` is like an abstraction of gRPC API to make programming easier.)

And, if we use a programming language other than Java, we have to call `gRPC` directly.
(There is no abstraction for each programming language at this time.)

As the above, strictly, the `Java client library` also uses gRPC API in its internal.
So, I think the sentence `such as [gRPC API] or [gRPC SQL API], which don't have the Java client library` is a bit different from the actual implementation.

* `indirect` mode with Java client library
  ```
  [Java client library (Java API)] ---> (gRPC) ---> [Envoy] ---> (gRPC) ---> [ScalarDB Cluster]
  ```
* `direct-kubernetes` mode with Java client library
  ```
  [Java client library (Java API)] ---> (gRPC) ---> [ScalarDB Cluster]
  ```
* Use other programming language
  ```
  [Other programming language (call gRPC API directly)] ---> (gRPC) ---> [Envoy] ---> (gRPC) ---> [ScalarDB Cluster]
  ```

So, how about the following sentence?

```
The client mode configuration is dedicated to the Java client library. If you use a programming language other than Java for your application (if you use the [gRPC API] or [gRPC SQL API] directly from the programming language), no such configuration exists. In this case, you must deploy Envoy pods.
```

> The client mode configuration is dedicated to the Java client library. When you use other programming languages than Java (i.e., you use [gRPC API](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/scalardb-cluster-grpc-api-guide.md) and [gRPC SQL API](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/scalardb-cluster-sql-grpc-api-guide.md) without the Java client library) for your application, there is no such configuration. In this case, you must deploy Envoy pods.

Author: Looks good! Thank you!

{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--info">{{ notice--info | markdownify }}</div>

### Transaction manager configuration (Java client library only)

> You must always access ScalarDB Cluster. To ensure requests are running properly, check the properties file for your client application and confirm that `scalar.db.transaction_manager=cluster` is configured when you use CRUD API.

Author: ScalarDB Cluster's Java client library can access the backend database directly as follows.

* Not recommended way for production environment

  ```
  [App (Java client library)] ---> [Backend DB]
  ```

However, this configuration is not recommended for the production environment. This configuration is only for testing/development purposes.

In the production environment, we recommend the following configuration (using ScalarDB Cluster).

* Recommended way for production environment

  ```
  [App (Java client library)] ---> [ScalarDB Cluster] ---> [Backend DB]
  ```

We want to tell users the above recommendation in this sentence.

> You must always access ScalarDB Cluster. To ensure requests are running properly, check the properties file for your client application and confirm that `scalar.db.transaction_manager=cluster` is configured when you use CRUD API.

Author: Looks good! Thank you!

> * Recommended for production environments
>   ```mermaid
>   flowchart LR
>     A(<b>App</b> <br> ScalarDB Cluster Library with gRPC) --> B(<b>ScalarDB Cluster</b> <br> ScalarDB Library with Consensus Commit) --> C(Underlying storage/database)
>   ```
> 
> * Not recommended for production environments (for testing purposes only)
>   ```mermaid
>   flowchart LR
>     A(<b>App</b> <br> ScalarDB Cluster Library with Consensus Commit) --> B(Underlying storage/database)
>   ```

Reviewer 3: This suggestion slightly modifies the shapes in the Mermaid diagrams and replaces bullets with headings.

````suggestion
#### Recommended for production environments

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  app["<b>App</b><br />ScalarDB Cluster Library with gRPC"]
  server["<b>ScalarDB Cluster</b><br />ScalarDB Library with<br />Consensus Commit"]
  db[(Underlying storage or database)]
  app --> server --> db
```

#### Not recommended for production environments (for testing purposes only)

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  app["<b>App</b><br />ScalarDB Cluster Library with<br />Consensus Commit"]
  db[(Underlying storage or database)]
  app --> db
```
````

### SQL connection configuration (Java client library only)

> You must always access ScalarDB Cluster. To ensure requests are running properly, check the properties file for your client application and confirm that `scalar.db.sql.connection_mode=cluster` is configured when you use SQL API.

Reviewer 3: (Similar to me previous comment)
I'm not sure what "You must always access ScalarDB Cluster" means here. Does it mean that the user should make sure that ScalarDB Cluster is always accessible?

```suggestion
You must always access ScalarDB Cluster. To ensure requests are running properly, check the properties file for your client application and confirm that `scalar.db.sql.connection_mode=cluster` is configured when using the SQL API.
```

Author: I will update this sentence based on the following comment.
https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-kubernetes/pull/207/files#r1345325464

> * Recommended for production environments
>   ```mermaid
>   flowchart LR
>     A("<b>App</b> <br> ScalarDB SQL Library (Cluster mode)") --> B(<b>ScalarDB Cluster</b> <br> ScalarDB Library with Consensus Commit) --> C(Underlying storage/database)
>   ```
> 
> * Not recommended for production environments (for testing purposes only)
>   ```mermaid
>   flowchart LR
>     A("<b>App</b> <br> ScalarDB SQL Library (Direct mode)") --> B(Underlying storage/database)
>   ```

Reviewer 3: This suggestion slightly modifies the shapes in the Mermaid diagrams and replaces bullets with headings.

````suggestion
#### Recommended for production environments

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  app["<b>App</b><br />ScalarDB SQL Library (Cluster mode)"]
  server["<b>ScalarDB Cluster</b><br />ScalarDB Library with<br />Consensus Commit"]
  db[(Underlying storage or database)]
  app --> server --> db
```

#### Not recommended for production environments (for testing purposes only)

```mermaid
flowchart LR
  app["<b>App</b><br />ScalarDB SQL Library (Direct mode)"]
  db[(Underlying storage or database)]
  app --> db
```
````

### Deployment of the client application when using `direct-kubernetes` client mode (Java client library only)

If you use [`direct-kubernetes` client mode](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/developer-guide-for-scalardb-cluster-with-java-api.md#direct-kubernetes-client-mode), you must deploy your client application on the same Kubernetes cluster as the ScalarDB Cluster deployment.

> Also, when using `direct-kubernetes` client mode, you must deploy additional Kubernetes resources to make your client application work properly.  For details, see [Deploy your client application on Kubernetes with `direct-kubernetes` mode](https://github.com/scalar-labs/helm-charts/blob/main/docs/how-to-deploy-scalardb-cluster.md#deploy-your-client-application-on-kubernetes-with-direct-kubernetes-mode).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Also, when using `direct-kubernetes` client mode, you must deploy additional Kubernetes resources to make your client application work properly. For details, see [Deploy your client application on Kubernetes with `direct-kubernetes` mode](https://github.com/scalar-labs/helm-charts/blob/main/docs/how-to-deploy-scalardb-cluster.md#deploy-your-client-application-on-kubernetes-with-direct-kubernetes-mode).
```

### Transaction handling (Java client library and gRPC API)

> You must make sure that your application always runs [`commit()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransaction.html#commit--) or [`rollback()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransaction.html#rollback--) after you [`begin()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransactionManager.html#begin--) a transaction. If the application does not run `commit()` or `rollback()`, your application might experience unexpected issues or read inconsistent data from the backend database.

Reviewer 3: Should these links point to the Javadocs for ScalarDB 3.10.1 instead of 3.10.0?

(The following is something we can address later.) I worry that, if users click the links in this sentence, they'll be shown docs for a specific version rather than the version they might be using. For example, if a user is using 3.5, they'll be shown the Javadoc for 3.10. That might not be an issue now, but in the future, if the content changes, it might be confusing.

Author: I agree with your concerns. I investigated the way to specify `latest` in the URL of Javadoc, but I was not able to find it...

So, instead of Javadoc, I use the [ScalarDB Java API Guide](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/api-guide.md).

I updated it at d6b6fdc27b055ed81139df24eab4c4a01666418d.

{% capture notice--info %}
**Note**

> When you use the [gRPC API](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/scalardb-cluster-grpc-api-guide.md) and [SQL gRPC API](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/scalardb-cluster-sql-grpc-api-guide.md), your application should call a `Commit` or `Rollback` service after you call a `Begin` service to begin a transaction.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If you use the [gRPC API](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/scalardb-cluster-grpc-api-guide.md) or [SQL gRPC API](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/scalardb-cluster-sql-grpc-api-guide.md), your application should call a `Commit` or `Rollback` service after you call a `Begin` service to begin a transaction.
```

{% endcapture %}

<div class="notice--info">{{ notice--info | markdownify }}</div>

### Exception handling (Java client library and gRPC API)

> You must make sure that your application handles transaction exceptions. For details, see each document of API that you use:
> 
> * [Handle exceptions (Transactional API)](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/api-guide.md#handle-exceptions).
> * [Handle exceptions (Two-phase Commit Transactions API)](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/two-phase-commit-transactions.md#handle-exceptions)
> * [Execute transactions (ScalarDB SQL API)](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-sql/blob/main/docs/sql-api-guide.md#execute-transactions)
> * [Handle SQLException (ScalarDB JDBC)](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-sql/blob/main/docs/jdbc-guide.md#handle-sqlexception)
> * [Error handling (ScalarDB Cluster gRPC API)](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/scalardb-cluster-grpc-api-guide.md#error-handling-1)
> * [Error handling (ScalarDB Cluster SQL gRPC API)](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/scalardb-cluster-sql-grpc-api-guide.md#error-handling-1)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You must make sure that your application handles transaction exceptions. For details, see the document for the API that you are using:

* [Handle exceptions (Transactional API)](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/api-guide.md#handle-exceptions).
* [Handle exceptions (two-phase commit transactions API)](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/two-phase-commit-transactions.md#handle-exceptions)
* [Execute transactions (ScalarDB SQL API)](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-sql/blob/main/docs/sql-api-guide.md#execute-transactions)
* [Handle SQLException (ScalarDB JDBC)](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-sql/blob/main/docs/jdbc-guide.md#handle-sqlexception)
* [Error handling (ScalarDB Cluster gRPC API)](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/scalardb-cluster-grpc-api-guide.md#error-handling-1)
* [Error handling (ScalarDB Cluster SQL gRPC API)](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/scalardb-cluster-sql-grpc-api-guide.md#error-handling-1)
```

With this in mind, you should use a worker node that has 4vCPU / 8GB memory resources. We recommend running only the above components on the worker node for ScalarDB Cluster.

### Network

You should create the Kubernetes cluster on a private network since ScalarDB Cluster does not provide any services to users directly via internet access. We recommend accessing ScalarDB Cluster via a private network from your applications.

### Monitoring and logging

You should monitor the deployed components and collect their logs. For details, see [Monitoring Scalar products on a Kubernetes cluster](./K8sMonitorGuide.md) and [Collecting logs from Scalar products on a Kubernetes cluster](./K8sLogCollectionGuide.md).

### Backup and restore

You should enable the automatic backup feature and PITR feature in the backend database. For details, see [Set up a database for ScalarDB/ScalarDL deployment](./SetupDatabase.md).

## Client application of ScalarDB Cluster

### Configuration of the transaction manager

You must always run the CRUD requests via ScalarDB Cluster. Please check your client's properties file that includes the configuration `scalar.db.transaction_manager=cluster`.

> * Recommended in production
>   ```console
>   [App (ScalarDB Cluster Library with gRPC)] ---> [ScalarDB Cluster (ScalarDB Library with Consensus Commit)] ---> [Underlying storage/database]
>   ```
> * Not recommended in production (Testing purpose only)
>   ```console
>   [App (ScalarDB Cluster Library with Consensus Commit)] ---> [Underlying storage/database]
>   ```

Reviewer 3: How about we replace this part with Mermaid diagrams instead? (I added some HTML within the Mermaid syntax for formatting purposes.)

````suggestion
* Recommended for production environments
  ```mermaid
  flowchart LR
    A(<b>App</b> <br> ScalarDB Cluster Library with gRPC) --> B(<b>ScalarDB Cluster</b> <br> ScalarDB Library with Consensus Commit) --> C(Underlying storage/database)
  ```

* Not recommended for production environments (for testing purposes only)
  ```mermaid
  flowchart LR
    A(<b>App</b> <br> ScalarDB Cluster Library with Consensus Commit) --> B(Underlying storage/database)
  ```
````

Author: Great! This diagram looks good!
Thank you for this suggestion!

> ### Deployment of client application with `direct-kubernetes` client mode

Author: Thank you for your suggestion!
I feel the word `deployment` is duplicated a little.
So, I think one of the following two is better.

* Deployment of the client application when using `direct-kubernetes` client mode
* The client application deployment when using `direct-kubernetes` client mode

What do you think?

> ### Deployment of client application with `direct-kubernetes` client mode

Reviewer 3: Oops, sorry! I mistakenly added the second `deployment` by accident. Please use the following:

```suggestion
### Deployment of the client application when using `direct-kubernetes` client mode
```

> ### Deployment of client application with `direct-kubernetes` client mode

Author: @josh-wong  
Thank you for the update!
I applied it!

If you use the [`direct-kubernetes` client mode](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/developer-guide-for-scalardb-cluster-with-java-api.md#direct-kubernetes-client-mode), you have to deploy your client application on the same Kubernetes cluster as ScalarDB Cluster deployment.

And, you must deploy additional Kubernetes resources to make your client application work properly.  For details, see [Deploy your client application on Kubernetes with `direct-kubernetes` mode](https://github.com/scalar-labs/helm-charts/blob/main/docs/how-to-deploy-scalardb-cluster.md#deploy-your-client-application-on-kubernetes-with-direct-kubernetes-mode).

### Transaction handling

> In your application, you must make sure it always runs [`commit()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransaction.html#commit--) or [rollback()](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransaction.html#rollback--) after you [begin()](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransactionManager.html#begin--) a transaction. If you miss running `commit()` or `rollback()`, it might cause unexpected issues or reading inconsistency data from the backend database.

Author: Thank you for your suggestion!
The updated sentence makes sense to me in the context of ScalarDB's transaction.

# Production checklist for ScalarDB Cluster

This checklist provides recommendations when deploying ScalarDB Cluster in a production environment.

## Before you begin

In this checklist, we assume that you are deploying ScalarDB Cluster on a managed Kubernetes cluster, which is recommended.

## Production checklist: ScalarDB Cluster

The following is a checklist of recommendations when setting up ScalarDB Cluster in a production environment.

### Number of pods and Kubernetes worker nodes

> To ensure that the Kubernetes cluster has high availability, you should use at least three worker nodes in three availability zones and deploy at least three pods. You also should ensure that one pod is deployed on one worker node by using [Node Affinity](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/assign-pods-nodes-using-node-affinity/).

Reviewer 2: Can it be achieved as long as users use our helm charts and use three worker nodes?
If so, I think it's helpful to mention it.

Author: Users can achieve it by using Scalar Helm Chart with a specific configuration.
We provide the sample configuration for this in the following sample.
https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-kubernetes/blob/3fb947ebd24be61fbe58b157e2abb19fdd422a1f/conf/scalardb-cluster-custom-values-direct-kubernetes-mode.yaml#L65-L86

So, I will add the link to this sample configuration.

Author: I added the link for the sample configuration in 4b5b5176989a33f5638f5892134528be21152f2d.
Note: This sample configuration file is under review in another PR. So, at this time this link returns 404. You can see the actual sample in the following URL.
https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalar-kubernetes/blob/3fb947ebd24be61fbe58b157e2abb19fdd422a1f/conf/scalardb-cluster-custom-values-direct-kubernetes-mode.yaml#L65-L86

### Worker node specifications

From the perspective of commercial licenses, resources for one pod running ScalarDB Cluster are limited to 2vCPU / 4GB memory. In addition, we recommend deploying one ScalarDB Cluster pod and one Envoy pod on one worker node. Note that you do not need to deploy an Envoy pod when using `direct-kubernetes` mode.

In other words, the following components run on one worker node:

* ScalarDB Cluster pod (2vCPU / 4GB)
* Envoy proxy (0.2–0.3 vCPU / 256–328 MB)
* Kubernetes components

> With this in mind, you should use a worker node that has 4vCPU / 8GB memory resources. We recommend running only the above components on the worker node for ScalarDB Cluster.

Reviewer: Does this mean that users should separate the Kubernetes cluster for their application pods from the Kubernetes cluster for ScalarDB Cluster?

Reviewer 2: Could it be at least 4vCPU / 8GB memory node?
Is it good enough to run three nodes with at least  4vCPU / 8GB memory each?
Or, is there a particular reason for fixing the node spec?

Author: @brfrn169  
> Does this mean that users should separate the Kubernetes cluster for their application pods from the Kubernetes cluster for ScalarDB Cluster?

This means `use separate worker node` (not cluster) as follows. So, users can run their own applications in the same Kubernetes cluster (but on other worker nodes).

```mermaid
graph LR
  subgraph "Kubernetes cluster"
    subgraph "Node 1"
      A-1[ScalarDB Cluster Node]
      A-2[Envoy]
    end
    subgraph "Node 2"
      B-1[ScalarDB Cluster Node]
      B-2[Envoy]
    end
        subgraph "Node 3"
      C-1[ScalarDB Cluster Node]
      C-2[Envoy]
    end
    subgraph "Node 4"
      D-1[User App]
      D-2[Uer App]
    end
    subgraph "Node 5"
      E-1[User App]
      E-2[User App]
    end
    subgraph "Node 6"
      F-1[User App]
      F-2[User App]
    end
  end
```

Author: @feeblefakie  
> Could it be at least 4vCPU / 8GB memory node?
> Is it good enough to run three nodes with at least 4vCPU / 8GB memory each?
> Or, is there a particular reason for fixing the node spec?

Ah, I see. There is no reason for fixing the node spec.
These specs are calculated based on the estimated usage of each component.
Also, the number of worker nodes for ScalarDB Cluster should be the same as the number of ScalarDB Cluster pods.

So, I will update this sentence as follows.

* Add `at least`.
* Add new description `You should use the same number of worker nodes as the number of pods`.

Author: I updated as follows in b32f6499d8ce5b09d10fbe79d397c49c35fcdeca.

* Add `at least`.
* Add new description `You should use the same number of worker nodes as the number of pods`.
* Add new description `You should use the different worker nodes from ScalarDB Cluster pods for user application`.

Reviewer: Thank you for answering my question!

Let me ask additional questions.

1. I feel that recommending `use a worker node that has at least 4vCPU / 8GB memory resources` and `use the same number of worker nodes as the number of ScalarDB Cluster pods` might result in too many number of worker nodes with very large transaction workloads. Instead, I wonder if we could host multiple ScalarDB Cluster pods on a single worker node. What do you think?
2. Using separate worker nodes for ScalarDB Cluster pods and user application pods seems to make the operation more complicated, especially in case of scaling pods. Is this a common practice in the Kubernetes world?

Reviewer 2: I also feel having only one ScalarDB pod in each node might be too restricted and is leaned towards availability a bit too much.
Can we recommend users to have several nodes so that one node crash doesn't cause too much performance loss?

Author: @brfrn169  
> I feel that recommending use a worker node that has at least 4vCPU / 8GB memory resources and use the same number of worker nodes as the number of ScalarDB Cluster pods might result in too many number of worker nodes with very large transaction workloads. 

I agree with your concerns. If there is a workload that has a very large number of Tx, the number of worker nodes will be too large.

> Instead, I wonder if we could host multiple ScalarDB Cluster pods on a single worker node. What do you think?

From a technical perspective, it's possible and I think there is no problem.

> Using separate worker nodes for ScalarDB Cluster pods and user application pods seems to make the operation more complicated, especially in case of scaling pods. Is this a common practice in the Kubernetes world?

Actually, I think I have not heard of many cases like this in the Kubernetes world. In this case, we can use HPA and Cluster Autoscaler to auto-scaling pods and worker nodes. However, we have to manage some node labels for each application and ScalarDB Cluster pod. It is a bit complex operation as you mentioned. And, it has a downside that sacrificing flexibility (e.g., flexible auto-scaling).

The purpose of this recommendation is to keep high availability and high performance in the production environment. However, it might be too strict even if it is a production environment.

For your reference, I have heard some use cases that use specific worker nodes in the k8s cluster as follows.

* The specific pod wants to use a worker node that has GPU in the ML workload.
* The specific pod wants to use a worker node that has SSD in I/O heavy workload.

So, our purpose and use case might be a little peculiar.

---

@feeblefakie  

> I also feel having only one ScalarDB pod in each node might be too restricted and is leaned towards availability a bit too much.
> Can we recommend users to have several nodes so that one node crash doesn't cause too much performance loss?

I think it's a good idea. It can keep minimum availability (maybe 3 worker nodes?) and remove complex things by loosening the restriction.

Also, if we choose this way, I think we might not need to separate the worker node for the application and ScalarDB Cluster. In other words, I think we might be able to mix application pods and ScalarDB Cluster pods on the same worker node (Of course it has sufficient resources).

---

I will reconsider recommendation and update this document.
Thank you for your questions and suggestions!

Author: @feeblefakie @brfrn169  
According to this discussion, I updated the document as follows in 5c39b5c51959dd6298afe38e0ceb071bf95e3e4d.

* Use at least 4vCPU / 8GB memory resources for one worker node.
* Use at least three worker nodes for availability.
* Consider the worker node resources based on:
  * Resources that your application need.
  * The maximum number of pods if you use some auto scaling features.

Now, there is no too strict restriction that `1 ScalarDB Cluster pod on 1 worker node`. In other words, you can deploy several ScalarDB Cluster pods on one worker node.

Note: We have a similar description (1 ScalarDB Cluster pod on one worker node) in the manual deployment guide and sample configuration. So, I will update those documents after we will decide on the final recommendations in this PR.

### Network

You should create the Kubernetes cluster on a private network since ScalarDB Cluster does not provide any services to users directly via internet access. We recommend accessing ScalarDB Cluster via a private network from your applications.

### Monitoring and logging

You should monitor the deployed components and collect their logs. For details, see [Monitoring Scalar products on a Kubernetes cluster](./K8sMonitorGuide.md) and [Collecting logs from Scalar products on a Kubernetes cluster](./K8sLogCollectionGuide.md).

### Backup and restore

You should enable the automatic backup feature and PITR feature in the backend database. For details, see [Set up a database for ScalarDB/ScalarDL deployment](./SetupDatabase.md).

> ## Production checklist: Client application that uses ScalarDB Cluster

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Production checklist: Client applications that access ScalarDB Cluster
```

> The following is a checklist of recommendations when setting up a client application that is using ScalarDB Cluster in a production environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The following is a checklist of recommendations when setting up a client application that accesses ScalarDB Cluster in a production environment.
```

### Transaction manager configuration

> You must always run CRUD requests via ScalarDB Cluster. To ensure requests are running properly, check the properties file for your client application and confirm that `scalar.db.transaction_manager=cluster` is configured.

Reviewer: We also have SQL interface in ScalarDB Cluster actually. Should we also mention it?

Author: Ah, I see. You're right. We should mention it.
I will add the description about `scalar.db.sql.connection_mode=cluster`.

Author: I added the new section `SQL connection configuration` in 7859246e0143d3b9f15c451a8abe2cd30f1f1c3c.

> You must always run CRUD requests via ScalarDB Cluster. To ensure requests are running properly, check the properties file for your client application and confirm that `scalar.db.transaction_manager=cluster` is configured.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You must always access ScalarDB Cluster. To ensure requests are running properly, check the properties file for your client application and confirm that `scalar.db.transaction_manager=cluster` is configured.
```

* Recommended for production environments
  ```mermaid
  flowchart LR
    A(<b>App</b> <br> ScalarDB Cluster Library with gRPC) --> B(<b>ScalarDB Cluster</b> <br> ScalarDB Library with Consensus Commit) --> C(Underlying storage/database)
  ```

* Not recommended for production environments (for testing purposes only)
  ```mermaid
  flowchart LR
    A(<b>App</b> <br> ScalarDB Cluster Library with Consensus Commit) --> B(Underlying storage/database)
  ```

> ### Deployment of the client application when using `direct-kubernetes` client mode

Reviewer 2: Do we first need to recommend users to use the direct mode whenever possible?

Author: Ah, yes. That's right. We should do so.
I will add a new section like `Use direct mode if you can`.

Author: I added the new section `Client mode` in dcd5987f543ad6668b1aee69f51f1c50f1c31a3f.

If you use [`direct-kubernetes` client mode](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb-cluster/blob/main/docs/developer-guide-for-scalardb-cluster-with-java-api.md#direct-kubernetes-client-mode), you must deploy your client application on the same Kubernetes cluster as the ScalarDB Cluster deployment.

Also, when using `direct-kubernetes` client mode, you must deploy additional Kubernetes resources to make your client application work properly.  For details, see [Deploy your client application on Kubernetes with `direct-kubernetes` mode](https://github.com/scalar-labs/helm-charts/blob/main/docs/how-to-deploy-scalardb-cluster.md#deploy-your-client-application-on-kubernetes-with-direct-kubernetes-mode).

### Transaction handling

> You must make that sure your application always runs [`commit()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransaction.html#commit--) or [rollback()](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransaction.html#rollback--) after you [begin()](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransactionManager.html#begin--) a transaction. If the application does not run `commit()` or `rollback()`, your application might experience unexpected issues or read inconsistent data from the backend database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must make that sure your application always runs [`commit()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransaction.html#commit--) or [`rollback()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransaction.html#rollback--) after you [`begin()`](https://javadoc.io/static/com.scalar-labs/scalardb/3.10.0/com/scalar/db/api/DistributedTransactionManager.html#begin--) a transaction. If the application does not run `commit()` or `rollback()`, your application might experience unexpected issues or read inconsistent data from the backend database.
```

Author: Good catch! Thank you!

### Exception handling

> You must make sure that your application handles transaction exceptions. For details, see [Handle exceptions](https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/api-guide.md#handle-exceptions).

Reviewer: We also have a document for exception handling for two-phase commit interface:
https://github.com/scalar-labs/scalardb/blob/master/docs/two-phase-commit-transactions.md#handle-exceptions

Furthermore, we also have the same for SQL interface and the gRPC API. But, I'm not sure we should list all the documents here.

Author: Ah, I see. Indeed, listing all documents is not a bit good... It might increase maintenance costs and be a bit confusing for users...

However, I don't come up with a good idea at this time. So, first I will list the all documents. This is because the main purpose of this document is to tell users `You should do proper error handling in your application`.

Author: I added other exception handling documents in e1f5e9b4de902a03d70e20bfb8493a454ac2a16c.
